BIOQUANT GROUPS

Complex Adaptive Traits
Dr. Ilka Bischofs-Pfeifer
We use tools from molecular biology, microscopy and mathematical modeling to control and engineer CATs.

Membrane Biology of Viral Infection
Dr. Petr Chlanda
We are studying how viruses interact with cellular membranes and lipids during infection.

High-content Analysis of the Cell
Dr. Holger Erfle
We design, develop and apply novel technologies for high-content screening and analysis.

Tissue Imaging and Analysis Center
Prof. Dr. Niels Grabe
We perform quantitative analysis and modeling of tissues, with emphasis on clinically relevant research projects.

Modeling Infection and Immunity
Dr. Frederik Graw
We combine mathematical models and experimental data to study infection and immune processes within a host.

Virus-Host Interactions
Prof. Dr. Dirk Grimm
We develop gene therapies by engineering non-pathogenic Adeno-associated viruses.

Biomedical Genomics
Dr. Carl Herrmann
We work on gene (de)regulation in diseases and methods for integration of large scale genomics datasets.

Modeling of Biological Processes
Prof. Dr. Ursula Kummer
We develop methods for the simulation, modeling and analysis of biochemical networks.

Single-cell Open Lab
Dr. Jan-Philipp Mallm
We focus on providing automated, high-throughput and multi-omic readouts tailored to cancer research.

Biological Information Processing
Dr. Jürgen Pahle
We analyse how living systems take up, process, store and transfer information.

Chromatin Networks
Prof. Dr. Karsten Rippe
We analyze the dynamic organization of the (epi)genome in relation to gene expression and functional cell states.

Biomedical Computer Vision
PD Dr. Karl Rohr
We develop methods for computer-based analysis of biological and medical images.

Protein Evolution
Prof. Dr. Rob Russell
We investigate all aspects of protein structure, function and evolution, focusing on molecular interactions.

Systems Biomedicine
Prof. Dr. Julio Saez-Rodriguez
We study signaling network deregulation in various diseases by integrating multi-omics data into mathematical models.

Methods in Computational Systems Biology
Dr. Sven Sahle
We develop computational methods and software for modeling and analysis of biochemical reaction networks.

Cryo-Electron Microscopy
Prof. Dr. Rasmus Schröder
We study actin-myosin macromolecular motor systems using single particle analysis and electron cryo tomography.
Hosted Groups

Signaling Networks
ERC DECODE
Prof. Michael Boutros
We study cellular signaling networks with genetic / genomic approaches, focusing on Wnt and Wnt-interacting pathways.

Translational Immunotherapy
PD Dr. Niels Halama
We develop tissue processing workflows and technologies for applications in solid tumor immunotherapy.

Health Data Science Unit
Prof. Roland Eils
We provide medical informatics solutions to make patient data accessible for clinical research and education.

Single Molecule Biophysics
Prof. Mike Heilemann
We study biomolecule structures using sub-diffraction-limit resolution imaging with single-molecule sensitivity.

Systems Biology of Signal Transduction
Prof. Ursula Klingmüller
We elucidate molecular mechanisms that regulate cellular decisions and their impact at the tissue- and organ-levels.

Retroviral and Influenza Virus (IAV) Biology
Prof. Hans-Georg Kräusslich


ERC DECODE
Prof. Jan Lohmann


Applied Analysis and Modelling in Biosciences
Prof. Anna Marciniak-Czochra
We use mathematical models to analyze the dynamics of structure formation and self-organisation in cell systems.

Physics of Complex Biosystems
Prof. Ulrich Schwarz
We develop a systems-level understanding of cell mechanics and adhesion.

ERC DECODE
Dr. Oliver Stegle


ERC INDIGENE
Prof. Jochen Wittbrodt
 
